Plugin Meta Extractor: Initial version (#805)
grafana/plugin-tools: packages/plugin-meta-extractor/README.md

# Grafana / Plugin Meta Extractor

> `@grafana/plugin-meta-extractor` is a small package that can be used to extract meta-information from the source code of a Grafana plugin. The main use case is to be able to automatically generate static information for a plugin without the need for manual intervention.

Reviewer: I think what is missing in the readme is:
- why this is needed. Yes we say "generate static information" but probably need more explanation to why
- How often and when this should run and where (locally, ci, etc.)

Reviewer 2: I updated the intro a bit in https://github.com/grafana/plugin-tools/pull/805/commits/4162173898580b4ce30f73c6bc3ce261cb8d08a4 - is this something similar to what you were thinking about?

(If you are developing a plugin there is nothing that you _have to_ do - only make sure that your plugin build workflow is up-to-date by running `npx @grafana/create-plugin@latest update`, and the build config will run this tool in the background.)

## Install

```

> npm install @grafana/plugin-meta-extractor

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
npm install @grafana/plugin-meta-extractor --save-dev
```

## Usage

#### With Webpack

The package exposes a webpack plugin that can be used to generate plugin meta-information on every build based on the source code.

```ts
// webpack.config.ts
// -----------------

import { GrafanaPluginMetaExtractor } from '@grafana/plugin-meta-extractor';

export default {
  // ...
  plugins: [
    // Creates a "plugin.generated.json" file in the output directory

>     // `entryFile` - an absolute path pointing to the module.(ts|tsx) file of your plugin

Reviewer 2: After having a look I think it would be tricky to completely rely on the webpack config inside the plugin.

`compiler.options.entry` would give us the actual entry points, however based on it's types it can also be a function that returns a promise, or an object with different entry points (which is based on how the user writes the webpack config). We could say that we create a contract between our webpack config and this plugin, however I am not sure if that's the best thing to do. I would probably rather keep the argument to be more explicit and reusable.

> The package exposes a webpack plugin that can be used to generate plugin meta-information on every build based on the source code. The plugin is adding the information to the `plugin.json` file by overriding the `generated` property in the JSON.

Reviewer 3: nit:

```suggestion
The package exposes a webpack plugin that can be used to generate plugin meta-information on every build based on the source code. The plugin adds additional information to the `plugin.json` file by overriding the `generated` property in the JSON.
```

    new GrafanaPluginMetaExtractor(),
    // ...
  ],
};
```

#### In code

The package exposes the methods for extracting the meta-data so they can be used manually:

```ts
import { extractPluginMeta } from '@grafana/plugin-meta-extractor';

const entryPoint = `${PLUGIN_ROOT}/src/module.ts`;
const pluginMeta = extractPluginMeta(entryPoint);
```

#### CLI

By calling the binary against a (module.ts|tsx) file, the package will print out the extracted meta-data to the console.

```bash
# Run local build
./dist/bin/run.js ~/my-grafana-plugin/src/module.ts

# Run latest remote version
npx @grafana/plugin-meta-extractor ~/my-grafana-plugin/src/module.ts
```

## Returned data format

The returned meta-data is in the following format:

```ts
{
  extensions: Array<{
    type: "link" | "component",
    extensionPointId: string,
    title: string,
    description: string
  }>
}
```

## Plugin support

> At this point the tool requires the `module.(ts|tsx)` to be in a certain format to be able to parse it (we are planning to improve on this in the future). The method calls for registering extensions have to be in the `module.(ts|tsx)`, and they need to be called on the `AppPlugin` instance in a "chained" manner:

Reviewer 3: nit:

```suggestion
This package requires the `module.(ts|tsx)` to be in a certain format to be able to parse it (we are planning to improve on this in the future). The method calls for registering extensions have to be in the `module.(ts|tsx)`, and they need to be called on the `AppPlugin` instance in a "chained" manner:
```
